I. Because of issues with zoom on Linux,
I am using audio device on one computer
and screen sharing and so forth on another,
so I hope this works as well as it should.
Uhm, it does mean I'm going to be a little.
It's going to be hard for me to see the chat,
so maybe somebody will flag
questions as they come up.
I'm delighted to take questions as they
happen though I I don't necessarily want
to just do a stream of consciousness.
You know, 60 or 90 minute talk here.
I'd love it if folks have questions
so we can jump right to them.
Uhm? Alright, so I would
like to share my screen.
Looks like I have that ability.
Alright. Uhm?
So let's uhm. Let's see how
is the best way to do this.
Uhm, so I guess where I would like
to start is to sort of take a step
back and and look at what is Docker.
Why did we think it was a good idea to
use it for islandora and why institutions
that are adopting ISLANDORA might?
Decide to adopt Docker as
their way of deployment.
So sort of as a as a as a background to this.
In the. It in prior iterations,
really, the expectation for island
or was that you would have a single
server or a couple of servers
and you would go in and manually
install software on them for all the
dependencies that I owned or and needs,
and anybody who's maintained one if
not multiple instances of Islandora
knows how cumbersome that can be.
So when Docker started emerging I I
don't know, it's four or five years ago.
We started talking about doing this UM,
and ultimately there was a project
called I'll, which I'll go into.
That was part of a part of the island.
Are seven ecosystem for the last two,
two and a half,
maybe three years of island or 7.
And now that same concept has been
carried over for ISLANDORA 8 and
come in is currently I would say
that's sort of the the predominant.
Distribution or installation
method for islandora.
I know there are still institutions
that are uncomfortable with Docker and
I'll touch on that a little bit here.
But part of my objective here is
to to provide a little bit of
a window into Docker itself,
not just jump straight to I'll,
which is how you run islandora in Docker
and and therefore maybe with folks
having a better understanding of the
underpinnings of I'll, there might be.
A little bit more comfort with
those who are still uncomfortable
with it for adoption and.
I think those who who are using it
are using it in a variety of manners.
So what I'm going to describe
here is not the only way you can
do any of these things.
And part of the community that
we all enjoy being part of is.
Understanding how other people are using
the same software and seeing you know
seeing it in code in many instances
and and swapping tips and tricks.
So. Docker and Isle are pretty opinionated,
but they do leave you a lot of
flexibility as well and I hope
I'll be able to touch on that in
a useful way in this presentation.
Alright, So what I'm going to
go over is is what is Docker?
Why would you want to use Docker?
Why would you not want to use Docker?
And then we'll talk about I'll a bit.
So there are now three repository's that
you might be interested in in understanding.
There's the old legacy
Islandora version of IO,
and then there are two repository's.
That correspond to the island or a
8 or 2.0 version of a violent Dora.
And then at the very end we'll
touch on Kubernetes and sort of
like managing and maintaining a.
A island or a cluster?
And uh, and then if folks are interested,
I think we will need to have a
separate session to really go through.
I'll in detail, right?
So this is the objective of this
presentation is sort of to get
you comfortable and familiar with
the concepts behind I'll.
And by the end I will.
I will do a little demo somewhere
about 15 minutes before the end will
start a build in the background,
and then by the time we're done
with the slides,
it'll be done building and then we
can go and click around the site and.
And see how it is.
Uhm?
OK.
Uhm, so as I said,
let's start with the basics so.
So what is Docker?
Well, Docker is a containerization system,
and if you're familiar with virtual machines,
this is not a new concept concept for you.
What's really different between virtual
machines and Docker containers is that
virtual machine essentially has the full
operating system installed and running on it.
So, uhm. So there's quite a lot of overhead
if you want to run a whole bunch of machines.
If you have ever tried to run a bunch of
the old overzet once you know what I mean.
Whereas with Docker,
each of the little containers
really is a single service,
so you have a Drupal container and a triple F
container and a fedora container and whatnot,
and each one of those is
running a major process.
There are ways to have Docker
containers run a couple of processes
and we do use them in I'll,
but conceptually really,
they're really running.
Each container exists to
run one main process.
Uhm?
And the mechanism for doing this is called.
Uh. Actually, I'm not going to
jump into that. OK, so then,
if you think about virtual machines right?
One of the things you have to
define is how do you persist data?
The same is true for Docker.
And by default,
if you have a container that doesn't
have persistent data storage defined,
you turn on the container it runs
and does something like for example,
the fit service you want to be like this,
it just runs,
and if you send a request to it,
it'll do something with
it and return it to you,
but it doesn't store any state, right?
It's just a pass through call
and response service.
You shut it down and you turn it on.
You doesn't need to
remember what it did last,
'cause it just it processed those requests.
Whereas something like Fedora or a database.
Obviously you would want to persist the data.
You send us some data.
You want it to store it,
and then if you turn off all the
virtual machines and turn them on.
You really expect that that
data is still there,
so there are two ways of
doing that in in Docker,
one is called a Docker volume and
the other is called a bind mount.
And there are some intricate
differences between them,
but really,
the basic difference is Docker
volumes are kind of hidden from you.
They're stored like in a hidden
location on your hard disk.
You don't have to worry about
file permissions or anything like
that because you're not trying to
access them from your host machine.
But that's the difference, right?
You can't access them from your host machine,
whereas a bind mount is a folder
or a file on your host machine.
The computer you're running
this from that is shared, like,
mirrored into the running VM.
The running Docker container and
it can be shared into multiple.
Right, so if you have like.
I don't know a a certificate that
needs to be on multiple containers,
you just find mount that same
certificate into multiple
containers all at once.
They can all share the same file.
Up
another big advantage here is that you really
don't have to do everything by yourself,
so by this point in the open source software.
Ecosystem. Practically anything you
would want to run, unless you're
building that software yourself,
is available to you as a Docker container,
and the thing about the outdoor
project is that it is software
we're building ourselves, right?
So we had to build those
containers ourselves,
and that's where the the project
the aisle project came from.
The other great thing about this
is that Docker containers are
built essentially with basic.
System administration commands.
They're very legible for any sort
of assistance administrator,
and so you can pick up one of these things,
called the dockerfile and
and look at it yourself.
Understand exactly what's going on,
and then you can actually modify it.
You can actually take it and modify it,
or you can extend it.
You can take that that the output.
Of of somebody else is
creation and say alright,
start with that and now I'm
going to run a couple other,
you know app get installs or move
some files around or you know
bind about something else in.
So the concepts here are that
you have this the Docker client
that runs on your machine.
And you can do things like build containers.
They're building images,
rather you can pull images from a registry,
which is simply a place a remote registry.
Uhm, there's something called Docker Hub,
which is the easiest way to think about this.
It's like GitHub,
but instead of storing a source code,
it stores Docker images so they
our foundation, for example,
builds the quote unquote official images
for the island or a micro services,
and so forth, and pushes to Docker hub.
And if you say, give me islandora slash fits,
it will go and fetch from Docker hub.
The islandora slash fits image
for you to be able to run on.
Your own machine.
So yeah, so I was saying
these are pretty legible,
so this is an example dockerfile.
This one is the Postgres. Uhm?
Image now you can imagine there's already
a Postgres image out there, right?
The Postgres people have released a
Postgres image or for whatever reason we
decided we wanted to do to build our own,
either to make it smaller or to
do something precise with it.
But this is basically all it takes two
to have a a container that you built
from scratch that runs Postgres. Uhm?
So see these froms from is where you
start with somebody elses container.
So this from Alpine that you know that's
a base operating system container and
then we we also pull in the the base
container for the Isle repository and
then on top of that we essentially use
APK which is the Alpine package manager.
Sort of like apps get but for Alpine.
To add Postgres and Postgres client.
And then we do a little bit of stuff with
data management and permissions and, UM.
Uhm? And we set an environment variable
which is needed by the other or
expected by the other services and then.
We copy the contents of the of the
file structure that that created this.
I will click through to that for a second.
Oh, this is the.
This is the actual built image.
Whoops
will will look at the build kit repository
in a little more detail in a minute,
but I just want to pull this up so Postgres.
So see how there's this root FS.
So if you want to,
if you want to build files into this image,
you just put them in this root FS
section and that's what that last
line does is it takes that folder
called root FS which is present at
build time and it copies it to slash.
You know the root of your
of the container itself.
Alright, I'm just gonna pause
there for a second. Any questions?
I wonder if I might be useful know to
sort of point out the difference between.
Uh, the community that's maintaining
the dockerfiles versus the consuming
institutions that are pulling them in
terms of the relationship between looking
at these dockerfiles, for instance.
Sure, yeah, that's a good question.
Or a good observation.
So when you look at something like this on.
Uhm? Docker hub, right?
You can see that it is island or us.
Last slash postgres.
So the first half here is the
institution or the the group
that is making it available.
So this case this is coming
from the islandora folks.
Uhm, you know if we were to go look at
the official Postgres image, we can.
We can do that,
just search for it.
So here's the the quote,
unquote official one.
Uh, and because it's official,
there's no organization.
That's just.
It's sort of like the blue
check mark on Twitter.
But here here's another one.
This is a company called BITNAMI
that publishes like practically
every high profile open source
piece of software as a Docker image.
So if you were to be using this
in your application you would
be following Vietnamese release
schedule as opposed to the islandora
foundations really schedule or the
official image release schedule
and whatever the institution
is that's doing the Docker.
Releases gets to set their own schedule.
Right they there the process
might be automated.
It might be manual for aisle 7,
it is manual, we do it once a month.
Uhm, for I'll eight it is actually automated,
so anytime there is a commit
that is that is created on the
system to build goes out and.
Uh, and then we can tag it to make
it sort of an official release.
Anytime I saw a hand there,
I think it was Rosie.
Well,
I lowered it because you just
answered my question.
Outstanding alright great.
No, I'm I personally wonder if
it's worth mentioning and I'm not.
I'm not sure if you've already said this,
but like you're really giving the background
here and that if people coming into use,
I'll may never ever have to deal with this,
but it's really good to have
the fundamentals to start with.
So in case anybody out there is like,
Oh my gosh, this I have to do this to learn.
I'll know you don't, but it's nice to know
that if you do have to come in and do this,
here's how. Absolutely.
And then, in addition to that, I think no.
If you could unpack what the monthly
releases mean in terms of having for aisle 7,
having monthly releases of oil available
to the community as community members,
if we pull down those new images
each month after the release,
what's the benefit to us?
Could you unpack that because that's?
That's like the end user perspective of.
It's really easy to pull the images down.
What's the benefit to us? Sure,
so if you're running a bare metal server.
Or a virtual machine that you're just
managing the host operating system on.
You'll be doing package updates,
but not only will you be
doing package updates,
but you'll be manually doing
updates on things like.
You know Tomcat and UM,
Imagemagick and so forth.
Things that aren't packaged released perhaps?
Or that the islandora
doesn't use the package?
You know the current package released
version and that gets tedious,
especially for larger upgrades.
So you can see again this
from Alpine three DOT 13.2.
That's a that's a version release
of an operating system right there.
Alpine releases all the time,
and this very well could say from Alpine
latest and then it would automatically.
Keep up every time there was a build with
whatever the latest Alpine build was.
So when when the institution that
you're following publishes a new image,
depending on how how this sort
of from hierarchy is handled,
you're typically getting updates
all the way up the chain,
right?
You're getting you're getting
every little component within
all of these components updated,
and so all you do is you swap out your
containers and you have a complete set.
Of security updates for for your images.
For basically everything that
runs in your system,
but you know if there's
a magic number like this,
you have to be relying on the maintainers
to be updating that magic number.
Right?
Is is I'll regularly updated I'll 8 I 8 is?
I late does not have a formal
release cycle right now.
I would say that's an issue.
But I'll 7 does 07 does, yeah.
We we built it up and we use it with
all of our own door seven clients and
so in order to do our work as a vendor,
we do those releases and and the
Community is able to use those same ones.
I anticipate something like that
will happen without Dora 8 as
sites move into production sites
using I'll move into production.
So it's kind of like a a critic.
We need a critical mass of people
of institutions to be committed
to Isleta to do this. Uhm?
Yeah, that critical mass is small.
Like OK, We're committed to on to
I'll and we'll be doing this, but.
And I know lyricist is using oil images
to some degree, and Johns Hopkins.
And like there there are a number of
institutions which are about to publish
sites that are all relying on this quirk.
Also, Quirk will come up later on this call.
And I think that's it, right?
There's very few,
so there there are islandora 8
sites that are in production,
but I I think they were
all hand built basically.
And now this first wave of dockerized
systems are about to hit production,
and that's when formal release
schedules will be established.
So can I can I make one more comment there?
Yeah, I think the beauty of Isle would
it offers is it offers institutions
the ability to keep their island or a
platform their repository up to date
in a way that's simple, whereas for
much more simple than it used to be.
Because instead of before we're
institutions were bound to keep all of these
different modules and packages updated.
And the reality is that many institutions
fell behind and we're way far out of date.
Of updates which left
their systems vulnerable.
Now simply pulling down,
doing a doctor pole pulls down all of
the images and you have the ability to
then test that on your staging server
and if it looks good and it works then
you push it to your production and
then all of a sudden your tomcat and
your my SQL database have all been
upgraded to the latest version so
there aren't security vulnerabilities
for your for your platform and it's
a common platform that we share.
Thanks David of Rosie.
Uhm, so I don't know if this is
the right time to ask this uhm,
but I'm not clear on what.
You still need to update yourself because
as I understand you can update, uhm.
Like the user facing things
to an island or a user,
include your Drupal version,
your Drupal module version,
the security updates that go into there.
You know, even things like
brush if if you can even run
is Russia thing in I'll come.
And so yeah, uh, is there still like what?
What is still required for
like to get manual updates?
Yeah, absolutely, OK.
So I'm going to skip ahead to this slide,
which is about maintenance with I'll so,
so Rosie. You're absolutely right, right?
And in my mind I separate this into
three categories when you're using,
I'll or Docker in general.
There are three things that
you're still updating.
There is the host server,
which is the the actual or virtual
machine that Docker is running.
On that, that is still a normal server
unless you're using like elastic
container service or something like that,
and that needs app get or Yum updates, right?
But there's not that much installed on it,
it's like the base OS and Docker and
Git and I don't know the the list
we have is like 10 or 12 things.
It's really not much and they're
all packaged managed,
so that's that's easy.
Then there's island or dependencies,
which I would say is close to 100%
covered by I'll out of the box,
and if it's not covered by
I'll out of the box,
then you as an institution will will
have modified it like you'll have your
own version of the Fitz container.
If you need to modify how the
how Fitz behaves.
Uh,
that that's like a level two sort of
conversation and I I would advise we
sort of come back to that in a bit.
But that's one thing, right?
So I'll provide.
And updated version of all of those
services so you can count on everything in.
This diagram. As being covered by.
I'll write there is a Houdini.
Image and a hypercube image
and homerus image etc.
And all of those things.
As David said, you just Docker compose down.
Docker pull to get the new
images Docker compose up,
bring your system back up and
you've got all of the latest,
and sometimes there's a
little bit you have to do.
If there were backwards incompatible
changes that happened in there,
like for example if you moved
from Fedora 5 to Fedora 6,
you'd have to, you know,
rig your data a little bit, but that's.
You know you would know about that.
That would not be just a
point security release.
Sort of a thing.
And then the third category.
The third category is your
Drupal application, UM,
01 more because you mentioned Rush.
I put brush in the second bullet.
Drush is built in to the
Drupal container, right?
So that's something that's just there.
When you spin up the Drupal container,
and unless you have packed a
different version of Drush into your
application which Drupal allows.
But anyway, so the third category
is your Drupal application.
You still do need to do module updates.
And and what not inside of
your Drupal application.
So it's not the same thing,
it it's not like I'll replaces
the island or a code based,
but rather your island or a code
base is embedded inside of it.
It is just.
It is bind mounted in to
the Drupal container.
So I go back to this.
Right your your your application lives here.
And everything else,
essentially you can take out of the
box from the island or foundation.
You never have to worry about installing
any of these things by hand again,
or updating them.
All you have to do is treat this like
it's a pure Drupal application and
just update Drupal using composer.
And like so that you know as a vendor
that runs a bunch of different
sites like that's what makes all
of this feasible that we don't have
to have somebody whose job is just,
you know, maintenance 24/7. Right?
It also it also means Rosie that
because your your island or a code base,
your Drupal is bind mounted and
correct me know if I'm phrasing this
incorrectly because it's bind mounted,
you can make customizations
so that you are institutions.
Islandora is running differently than
our institutions or than some other
institutions and they all persist
because that's bind mounted and sort
of slurped or mirrored into the the
aisle container that uses that code.
So if you want to install a new module,
you'll do that on your find mount.
Then you'll you'll do it there and then.
It will live forever so that you can
keep pulling down new Docker images.
And even new Drupal Docker images,
but it won't affect the customized
code that you have on your side.
Yeah, let me.
I'll do a better job or I'll I'll
illustrate what David is saying.
See this.
This is the LDC project,
and that's the thing you get
from the foundation.
Will talk about the structure of
this a little bit in a minute,
but there is this code base folder
and in aisle 7 actually we had this.
Just be an empty folder.
That's like a git submodule that has
a totally different codebase where
you used or this we actually found.
Again in in the process of
managing a whole bunch of these,
they're keeping two repository's In Sync,
a file repository and an island or
repository was was unnecessarily complex,
and it just tripped you up
more than it helped you.
So now and or 8 we've actually gone
with a single repository that has both
the aisle Docker compose code and the
code base all checked into one repository,
and then it's always perfectly In Sync,
and things are actually a lot simpler.
But yeah,
Rosie this is just a.
Like a Drupal app with a composer,
file etc.
In here and you can do anything to that
that you could to any other triple app.
So sorry just a follow up question.
When you said that they're In Sync, was
that just a like logistical managing thing,
or are there actually dependencies that
happened between the stuff in the codebase
folder and your other Docker containers?
Sure, OK, so for example,
imagine you wanted to add rip rap as a as a.
As a thing to your island or application,
I would say that there's
two things you would do.
One is you would run composer require.
Where's my modules here?
So you need to get the Drupal module for it,
but would also make me to have
the service which is a separate
container and so that's right.
If you have one.
But if you have,
if your Drupal thinks it's got one,
but it doesn't, then you're in trouble.
Yeah, yeah.
So so exactly so you would do composer
require Mark Jordan slash, rip,
rap or whatever it is and it would.
It would put a line here and your
Drupal application would have it.
But also you would have to go out and.
Uhm?
And we'll look at this Docker compose
file and see how here is like Cray fits.
There is a little block like this
that says rip rap blah blah blah
that you can put in here to include
the Reprap service and then.
Looking at the. Uhm, this diagram.
It would essentially have another little box.
That's it that was called Reprap.
There was a service that's available
to to the Drupal container and then.
Drupal's Reprap module would have the
dependency it needs with that service.
Great thanks.
Yep.
And if you want to throw something out
like imagine you don't want to use Fedora,
right?
You just go into that Docker compose file
and you delete the Fedora and recast.
Inservices right Boom gone you don't
ever have to think about them again.
But you may have to change your Drupal
application to not try to send things there,
but uhm.
You know adding and removing service,
this is just that easy.
OK, so I've said a few things in the last
couple minutes that I haven't explained yet.
One of them is Docker compose.
Docker compose is the simplest,
and in my mind the sort of the entry
level Docker orchestration tool.
Some people would argue it's not
really even an orchestration tool,
but I I think that it deserves to
be thought of as one because what
it does is it prevents you from
having to run Docker commands on
your command line to manage.
You know Docker service
is what you get to do.
Is set up a file like I was just
showing you that defines all
of your Docker services and the
things about them that matter,
like what port they run on
and and you know some.
Things like here.
Here's the PHP memory limit and so forth.
So you can pass in variables and
and then you can save this file
in your git repo and then every
time you start up your system,
it'll be exactly identical from
an infrastructure configuration
standpoint and you can.
You can totally just nuke things
and start him up again and and
it will build all of the same
container configuration.
And, uh,
you don't have to spend any time
really doing DevOps or systems
administration things.
You just put your configuration in here.
And uh,
and then you can turn things on and off.
The big asterisk on that, again,
is how the data is persisted,
and in this case we're using Docker volumes,
so it's all sort of hidden from us,
but we could switch this over to have
you know the Fedora data though CFL,
you know data root.
For example,
mounted in plain sight on your server,
but you probably want to do
that in a remote environment,
but in terms of kicking the
tires on island or eight,
that's not really that necessary.
So it comes down to use case.
How that is stuck. Uh.
So again, as I said, this is this has
been around for I don't know exactly
three to five years or something,
but originally Docker itself had this
concept of Docker swarm which Docker swarm
as a separate idea does not exist anymore.
This was dockers business plan for awhile
was to have Docker and Docker compose,
be free, and then Docker swarm
was this paid service that was
supposed to keep them in business,
essentially because enterprise use
would require a heavier level.
Of orchestration.
Well, Google came along and built
this thing called Kubernetes which
was so much better than Docker
swarm that they they had to abandon
that as a business model because
everybody was using Kubernetes.
But what they did do which is really
nice is they took some of the the
the like level two mechanics like
simple auto scaling and whatnot
and they added those features to
Docker compose so you can use
Docker compose to do some of the
things that you hear about when you
hear people talk about Docker and
Kubernetes in terms of autoscaling.
So you can say all right if I'm running.
A whole bunch of of video allow the
the allow more micro services to spend
themselves up for video processing and
then turn them off when we're not asking
for many service calls there anymore.
If you really want to do that sort
of thing and you want to do it well,
then you need to use Kubernetes.
That's what Kubernetes was built for.
It allows things like they
call blue green deployments,
which means when you deploy
things to a server,
there's no downtime like your old stuff.
Your old containers are up and they
sort of mesh like a transmission
with your new containers and the
old ones phase out and die off,
and the new ones start picking
up requests and they come in.
And like this is how Netflix, for example.
Never goes offline 'cause they
have this big giant.
Blue Green deployment
system that they've built,
and every other website that you can
think of now has blue green deployments
like this and you can do it too if
if you use something like Kubernetes.
But there is. A tremendous learning curve
with Kubernetes like it is so powerful, but.
But there's also a big learning curve,
so I would say that's sort of like a
Level 3 level 4 level five kind of a
thing with Docker it is possible to run.
Islandora well with Docker without this.
Uhm? OK, so why would you
want to use Docker right?
We covered some of this already.
The modularity of it makes it really agile.
You can spin things up on any
server at anytime and get sort
of the same representation you
can throw away physical servers,
especially if the storage is detachable.
And then spin up a new server, you know,
remount that same persistent data and
be back online in 15 minutes or less.
It's it's really kind of magical like that.
You can also spin up local development
environments really quickly because
really all you and it doesn't impact
anything else you're doing on your machine
'cause everything is containerized,
which means it doesn't try to to to
change your host operating system it.
It it runs within these little
containers and they go on and off
when you say they don't overlap with
the underlying operating system.
As you can see from the Docker compose file.
Things are consistent if
you check them into git,
and then you're you are able to
have pretty good replica ability.
And it's fast. It's not fast
like execution speed is faster,
it's fast like you can do server
builds and server deployments
and whatnot in a much faster.
In much less amount of time,
and typically with less room for human error.
Yeah, and then.
One final note on this is,
let's say you have a team that
sometimes runs windows and sometimes
runs Linux and sometimes run Mac.
Because Docker has a platform for each of
those and you can run Docker containers
in each of those environments as long
as the team that built the Docker
containers sort of had this in mind.
This interoperability you can do that
without a problem and the I'll project has
been tested in all of these environments,
and even more so Nigel made
sure that the new I'll.
Uh, containers run very
nicely on armd chips as well,
so you can use cheaper cloud machines.
You can use the new apple and 1M2, etc.
And that's that's really nice.
I alluded to the scalability also,
so as I said, each rather than
having one single monolithic server,
you can actually have those
the different services running
from different host machines.
If you want, you could have all
have all of your Houdini services
running from a separate place.
You could have your database server
in a totally different location.
You can have multiple Drupal Web
heads responding requests you
don't have to just have a single a
single one of each of those boxes,
and you can have it sort of scale up.
A down depending on need.
All of those things take a little
bit of work to do, and they're not.
They're not part of the starter pack
from I'll but. I would anticipate that.
Uhm, there will be contributions.
Back of examples.
At least with a violent Dora auto
scaling in the next six months or a year.
And there are plenty of examples out
there of other services that you could
use if you wanted that before them.
Uhm?
So one of the knocks against
Docker is security and I'll talk
about that in a minute.
There there is.
There are fundamental flaws in terms
of if because the because the the
there is a shared layer of an OS.
If your server is compromised,
the the compromising agent can access
any of the containers on the server,
right, but?
That's not really any more dangerous
than running multiple VM's on the
same machine for the same reason,
so I would say really.
Look at what your security needs are,
what the potential vulnerabilities are,
and then look at the the gains that
you can make with adopting Docker.
Typically folks who are citing
Docker security risks are thinking
about applications that require a
much higher grade level of security
review than than islandora systems.
You know, medical records and so forth.
Uhm?
And Docker does provide
really nice security tooling.
Uhm, within it's it's constructs,
so if you've made peace with with the the
nature of how Docker runs on the server,
then you have a lot of tools to work with.
You can you can very quickly add and
manage firewalls and filters and proxies
and other security tools like that.
Uhm? And I alluded to this earlier too.
If your system is compromised,
basically you can throw it all out.
Make sure that those persistent data
stores were not compromised and
fix them if they were, you know,
grow back to an old backup if you have to,
and then just fire up a new copy so your
actual servers are very disposable, right?
You just need to protect the integrity
of those blind mounted data stores
and that's it, and so that's.
That's again,
if we're not storing medical
records and whatnot.
Really, what you need to be
protective of then is vandalism.
Right, you don't want somebody to
come in and delete your fedora,
so you need to have a good backup.
But,
but that's sort of the worst case
of a of a malicious intrusion.
And even that is recoverable.
Uh, because you just restore your
backup and then you've spin up a new
set of oil containers and then you
mount the restored backup version and
you're all your back up and running.
No, I can ask you a question.
In terms of security and Docker,
and in your experience.
All systems really need security as
like a very need to be at the front of.
The administrators minds when
they're putting together a system.
So how does Docker compared to like, say,
if you're putting a system together?
Do you think that Docker in and of
itself is any less secure or harder
to make secure than any other system?
We've worked with?
No, I don't think so.
I think the people who site Docker
security as a reason not to use
Docker are really most often looking
for a reason not to use Docker,
and that's like it's because they
don't understand it or they don't.
Uhm, they don't want to understand it.
UM, that they'll they'll sort
of use that as a way to wave
it off as a viable option.
Every system has flaws,
and it's just whether you're
willing to manage the flaws.
I'm gonna come back to this
in a second just because.
It's this is a better lead
in from that question,
so why would you not use Docker?
In my opinion you would not use
Docker if you're afraid of it,
and I don't mean that in in any sort of like.
Pejorative way it like I I get that
you know everybody has only so much
time and energy in their lives and they
don't necessarily want to go out and
learn a totally new platform, right?
But that that's fundamentally the reason
you wouldn't use Docker if you're.
In the beginning or the middle of a career,
and you want to set yourself up to too.
Uh, I have a good understanding of the
systems underpinnings of the next 10
or 15 years of open source development.
Then I think it's worth the effort
to to come up to speed on Docker,
because Docker or.
I would say containerization
more than darker is here to stay.
There are other containerization
methods and as Kubernetes came along
and showed there was a better way
to do a swarm sort of orchestration,
there will be other tools but the
concept of containerization is
here to stay and there is not.
There are not forward thinking open
source projects that don't have a
containerisation sort of solution out
there because it is how a it is, how.
Uhm, adoption at scale. Is done now.
And and it's fine if you don't.
Want to come up?
Come online with that,
but I I don't think it's a.
It's a waste of time or energy because.
We're not going back to managing
servers by hand.
This is the step the stepping stone
that will go on to the next even
further containerization sort of
centric methodology of managing
systems infrastructure.
There are some some actual drawbacks.
So for example, if you are a
team that has a lot of Max Max.
In particular, have a.
A disk IO problem in terms of reading,
writing from bind mounts.
There are some some work arounds,
they're not awesome.
That's why we as a company switched over
to having developers run on Linux 'cause
we just got to sidestep that problem.
Like I said, there are other side steps
and Nigel actually built one into the
latest round of Isle which is there,
you know he has offered.
There is an idea essentially
that runs in your web browser,
so nothing would be bind mounted.
You get to use Docker volumes and
edit things all within Docker.
At that prevents this disk IO problem,
which is fundamentally between Docker
and your host operating system.
Reading and writing to the
same folder at once.
So that's that's one like
realistic consideration.
If you're adopting Docker and you run Max.
You need to have some
mechanism for handling that.
Uhm, so my two departments,
like I said, just aren't interested in.
Doing this for whatever reason, right?
And that typically comes down to learning
curve or staff training and whatnot.
So that's that's another
actual blocker to adoption,
and I mentioned the security side of it.
That's not my area of expertise,
so we'll need to bring somebody
in who understands that.
Better to talk about that more
detail if folks are interested.
But then the the the final one here.
I liken this to going from
functional programming to up to.
Object oriented programming.
It's a different way of thinking
about infrastructure management.
Like object oriented programming, it is a.
It it requires you to think differently, but.
You can tell that the concepts
are not going to go away right.
This is a fundamental improvement.
To how systems are managed and
it's worth the time to invest
in learning it because it's.
It's not going away.
I see a question re Max.
Are you saying this is a drawback
when using Macs as servers or
when using them as configuring?
Command and control machines.
Uhm?
The short answer here is.
I wouldn't use Max as staging
or production servers anyway,
so I assume you're talking
about local development servers.
That is where the drawback is is running
a a system on your local editing
it and having that be performant.
You know you don't want composer
install to take 5 minutes, you want
it to take 30 seconds or less, right?
That that's what we're talking about here.
****. Yeah.
Uhm? So yeah, so I think this was an
important thing to have recognized that
islandora needed a containerisation
distribution method and that.
Managing the islandora at scale
really requires something like this,
especially for institutions that run.
You know what you might have done with
multi sites and islandora 7 or or running
multiple institutional repository's.
What did I skip?
Oh, Docker in the cloud? OK, uhm,
then I'll pause for questions again. So so.
If you have an institutional data center.
Or if you're just using virtual machines,
either from Amazon or Google or anybody else.
Digitalocean, what have you you can,
you can just do that, right?
That's that fundamentally is
not that different than running
Docker under local, right?
So in a WS, that's the E,
C2 plus CBS plus S3, sort of of,
you know, ecosystem EC2?
Is there Elastic compute platform?
Those are just virtual machines.
EBS is there block storage and S3.
Is there sort of BLOB storage and
all of those user put those services?
Together and you can run
islandora really nicely.
If you want to cut out
the host server entirely,
Amazon offers ECS which is there less
than container service and then you
don't have to update the host machine.
You can just deploy containers
straight to the cloud.
KS is their elastic Kubernetes service
and they have other products called
Fargate and Copilot which allow you to
run containers in orchestrated ways.
Uhm? Again, that's sort of step
2345 in the adopting Docker.
Road map. Uhm? But again, I I.
I don't think that you need to do anything
more complicated than the first option.
Here to do islandora in Docker really well.
And I'll demonstrate how to do it.
OK, pausing 4 questions.
I see there's a little bit
more Mac Windows commentary.
Yeah, so Bethany you you you
run a Mac, you do Docker.
I own Dora in Docker development
using I'll or a fork of.
I'll for Johns Hopkins everyday and it's
performant enough for you to do your job,
but you see other people's
machines running faster, yes?
Yeah, and we have a suite of tests that
I just tend not to run locally because
it constantly brings our setup down
and then back up and that can take
a little bit of time like firing up.
I'll the first time takes takes time as
as as you know is going to show us later.
Firing it up on a Mac is gonna take
a little bit longer so that yeah,
so for the most part I can.
I can work with it just fine,
it's just slow around the edges.
Alexander says, where would I find
a guide for assistive meant to
install and run island production?
The README is seem geared toward valuator.
Building it to see the demo. That is true.
Uhm, I would say that that's a gap
that needs to be filled in aisle 7.
We wrote this up in great detail and if
you're using Docker compose denial 8,
the same documentation holds
true to 80% or so.
Like the concepts are the same,
but the details are a little different.
So yeah, that documentation needs
to be carried over for I late.
That's definitely a gap.
If you read the main readme
and you get down a couple pages
down on that main readme,
there is some excellent information
about about running it in production.
I'll touch on that in a minute,
but I'm actually really proposing
that that be the subject of
another one of these sort of 60
to 90 minute sessions in about a
month at the next open meeting.
OK, so we already sort of
jumped the gun on this.
Uh, there is there.
This is this repository that's
just by CG slash I'll and that's
where you can if you want to kick
the tires on the island or legacy.
Docker infrastructure you're
welcome to do that.
As I said, the documentation there
is really expensive and excellent.
LDC has good documentation,
but it's more on the DevOps side than
on the running this in production sort
of side I'll build Git is extremely
well documented in my opinion.
Also, just in terms of what services
and environment variables and so forth
are available for your customization,
so huge kudos to Nigel for
being the architect really of.
I'll DC and I'll build kit.
He's done a fabulous thing with that.
Right, yeah, this diagram should have
been way earlier in this presentation.
I think we covered it a bit.
The takeaways here are, uh,
that you know each one of
these boxes is a container and.
Uh and is.
Available from the Islandora Foundation.
With the exception of Drupal that.
They just said that wrong.
The Drupal container has an asterisk.
Yes, you can use it out of the box and
it will give you sort of a default.
Application, but really what you want
to do is put your own application in
there and you do that either with
a bind mount which will look at.
When I run this demo or when
you're running in production.
Uhm, you would actually build
yourself an image and push that to
an image repository. That's private.
And then you would deploy that that
image that was pre built to your servers.
That is the short answer Alexander
for how you run things in production.
You don't want to have.
You don't want to be running composer
install on the servers you want to run
composer install sort of in a build
environment and push that prebuilt image
containing the output of composer install.
To a private registry container registry
like Docker hub and then from your servers
you're the servers need credentials
to go and talk to that private repository.
Pull down that that image that has your
application baked into it and run it.
That is fundamentally the
difference between Islandora 7,
Rio seven and I'll 8 L 7.
The staging and production servers
used bind mounts the same way that
local development environments do.
And uhm. That's fine, it works,
but it's kind of a naive way of doing this.
Uhm, yeah, and then I would.
Or eight.
We sort of did it right by building.
By following best practices and using
prebuilt images to run things in
staging and production environments.
OK, I'm going to step back and
do a little time check here.
It is 1110. I think we're going to 11:30.
OK, let me just look ahead here.
OK, yeah, we're on track.
OK, some of this I've already talked about,
uh? The you should go take a look
at the I'll build Git repository.
There is this sort of tree structure and.
And so each of those little boxes
in the diagram right has a has
something corresponding here.
And there are actually some extras.
The reason there are extras is 'cause
sometimes there's at all an option.
You can run FC repo.
Really, this should be called FC Repo 5,
because that's what it is,
and this one is FC Repo 6.
And then sometimes there are things
which are apparent containers.
So engine X for example is like is built.
As an intermediate.
Sort of layer and then there are a
couple things that are children of that.
So for example, I think all of the crayfish.
Microservices need to run on some
sort of a web service like Engine X,
so they use engine X as their base image,
but so does the Drupal image.
Right, so, uh, I think I have.
Nigels diagram here, yeah?
So you can see how the the hierarchy works.
There's this base image and then
there's a Java image which you know
brings Tomcat to the mix and then
each one of these is a is a Tomcat
application that's sort of layered on.
On top of that and each one of
these is a PHP application that's
layered on top of engine X.
And that's how you build networks,
and the output is that each one of
these sort of leaf nodes is available
to you through the Docker hub page.
You could actually download the base
image and engine X and whatnot,
but you wouldn't want to.
There's no real purpose for
those intermediate images,
they're just stepping stones on
the way to get to what you want,
which is the leaf nodes in this graph.
So as I said, a Docker hub
there is this user islandora,
which is where the outdoor
foundation publishes images
and when we run islandora in,
I'll for outdoor eight.
We don't modify any image except for the.
The the Drupal image,
so we take everything else off the
shelf and for Drupal we say start with
the island or foundations Drupal image
and then composer install and then
bake that into an image and run that.
Sometimes we do a little bit,
we add a few packages like if if.
We need if a client it needs a module
that has a dependency that the the
broad community is not going to want.
We have the ability to add that in
our dockerfile and not try to force
the foundation to adopt that extra
dependency when we don't think that
anybody else really is going to care.
Another option here is a.
What Johns Hopkins is doing,
where they actually have a full fork
of build kit and they customized a
whole bunch of things and they run
and publish all of their images to
like JHU IDC slash FC repo, right?
They have their own org and I don't
know if it's public or private.
Within Docker hub that they use as the
registry where they pull their images from,
and that's a totally viable option.
I think Lyricis does something
similar to that as well.
It's been a while since I talked to Nigel,
but that's where he was headed.
Six months ago.
OK, so the other Islander DevOps
repository that you should pay
attention to is this. I'll DC one.
This is this DC is for Docker compose
so this is where you can like.
Pick up the project and try it out yourself.
So if you clone down the repository
you have the option of doing a number
of things you can try on door out
like there's a make demo command
that just gets you a demo server.
That's the it's like a clone of.
A future diodore.ca Uhm,
there is a PR that, uh,
that we and lyricist collaborated on
which defines a install profile and theme,
which is much more like the island
or 7 user experience that we we've
contributed about six months ago
and are now trying to work through
the final sort of adoption phases.
So this can be a good starting place
for other institutions as well.
And then you can. You can also find
sort of scaffolding for tooling to
run in production and SSL handling.
Another thing that it's useful
for is very much like the the
old Ovas that we used to offer
we the foundation used to offer.
You can spin up a set of disposable
infrastructure really quick,
do something and contribute it,
and then shut it down and throw it away.
It's very it's very quick and easy
once you know what you're doing in
terms of being able to do that.
But that's probably another gap, right?
That they're probably.
I say it's easy, but that's 'cause I know.
The systems, and probably there's a
missing documentation page that's like.
OK, so I want to contribute a PR somewhere.
What are the five things I
do to get my Docker stack up?
Work on it and contribute it.
Alright, So what I'd like to do
is I would like to hop over to my
terminal for a second and we're
just going to run that installer.
The born digital lyricist,
install profile and theme.
We're going to run this
in the background and.
And you can see how it works.
OK.
So I already have this down,
so I'm going to run MC Clean
which is just going to totally
throw away everything on this.
On this computer.
In terms of this project,
it doesn't damage any of my
other projects on the computer.
So is it possible to make
the font a little bigger?
Yes, legible, it's just a little.
No. Control plus though there we go.
Thank you. How is that a little better?
Yeah, OK. So what we're going to
do here is we're going to run,
make local and because, well.
Because I'm on the install profile branch,
which is where that that PR is from.
This is going to give me the born digital
lyricist, install profile and theme.
And you can see first what it
does is it goes through and
generates a set of secrets.
These are the passwords that you need
in order to have an infrastructure set,
and if we go and we look.
Over here we can see, for example.
You know there's a a nice long
password for your Drupal database.
All none of these things matter.
Meaning like the exact values don't matter,
because if you turn off your infrastructure,
change a whole bunch of passwords
and then fire it up again,
it will reset there all the root
passwords and what not to be
the new ones that are in here.
So it's very forgiving like that,
and that's one of the nice security
features is that you're the
infrastructure around secrets and.
Or with darker called Secrets,
which really are passwords and
tokens and things like that
private confidential information.
And can be changed sort of on the fly.
There are, there are.
Secret management tools that do
this in a more secure way, right?
Having this password in
a plain text file here.
Maybe it's not awesome,
depending on what you're doing with your.
With your git repository and there are
what's called secret management tools.
To get around this.
Essentially it's a another thing
that runs on your computer where
the password is pulled from from
that application instead of
pulling from a file on the disk.
Next thing it did was it went
out and it pulled the the latest
images for all of the different.
Services that Docker compose requested.
And then it's, uh,
it's spinning things up and.
Uhm, one of the first things it's
doing is doing a composer install with
the the project that it checked out.
And if we go look here.
Thanks, I was just going to ask
if you could show the Makefile.
Yeah, so so the heart of. Uh.
I'll DC, I would say it's the bank
file Makefile does everything.
It it it saves you from having to
understand and remember all of the
little intricate Docker commands right?
You just say make local and
we and Nigel and other.
You know Danny other collaborators
have gone in and and.
Set up a script that builds you a local
in the in the recommended way, right?
There's another one here
that's make up right this.
All you have to do is,
say make up in your system.
Comes online on this computer
in the recommended way.
Make down turns everything off,
make login gives you address.
You lie,
you know to hijack the root user.
There are other commands in
here generate secrets.
We saw that running at
the beginning of this.
And, uh, there are imports and
exports for FC repo data for Drupal
public and private files for Drupal
databases, dribble configs, etc.
So these are pretty well covered in the.
In the. Uh, in the readme.
Alan, I see your note that make local
is not working in the dev branch.
It's missing the composer Jason Coaster Day.
Son isn't checked into this repository,
so my guess is your code base
folder got corrupted somehow.
And that's why it's not finding it.
Because that's actually
pulled from another location.
Oh, that's actually under
fresh build in A and a fresh.
I tried to to scare up a brand new
one and it's the two things that
it's running into is if you try
to run the code examiner on that,
it's missing a password which you
can which can supply manually,
but as soon as it gets to the build
part it errors out saying it's
missing composed Jackson Jason
and that's that's a brand new
build brand new directory.
To look at what it's cloning into the.
Into your your code base directory.
So for example,
in the branch that I'm in in the
install profile branch, it says.
If you don't have a code base folder,
go and start with with this one.
Install Profile branch of the
outdoor sandbox code base.
And if you do have a code base already,
it'll skip that.
So you know if you brought in your
own Drupal application from another.
Place then because we're going to do an
install and context is broken for a certain,
for how islandora uses.
Uh, context? Uh, we needed to fix
this to a specific get hash.
Then it runs composer install,
then does a little bit of. Uh. Uhm?
File permission setting and make install
will actually do the install from your.
From the Drupal file system,
from the code base,
this checked in there.
Uhm?
So let's go back over here for a second.
So I haven't checked out the dev branch,
which is different from the
install profile branch.
So if you're trying this now,
I definitely recommend.
Based on Alan's experience running
this from the install profile branch.
Uhm? So this is still composer stuff.
Alright, composer finishes.
And now you can see it,
making sure that there's
a database to work with,
and then it's going to do this install.
And that's what it's doing.
Now is a Drush site install.
And this just takes 8 or
10 minutes or something.
So we're just gonna let that go.
For a few minutes.
OK. When this is done, we'll have to
do a couple things in the web browser.
These would. Ideally be automated.
And dumb. We should have time to. Uh.
Play around with that in the next
couple of weeks and get that all fixed.
We talked about this a little bit.
If you look at the LDC project,
the things to take a look at our that make
file that we just took a look through.
Then there's also the sample file.
Which, if you read the readme,
it'll tell you about these different.
Uhm variables here. So for example,
if you don't want to use Fedora, you can.
Yeah, I thought there was just a
don't use Fedora variable here.
This Fedora 6 I think is what changes.
It makes the determination whether
you want Fedora 5 or Fedora 6.
But anyway, there's a bunch of
these variables where you can.
You can adjust things here and what
you do here in this file determines the
output of this Docker compose file,
so this Docker compose gets
created from all of these little
docker compose fragments that.
Uhm? That are then sort of like
called for in this project.
In the sample DMV.
File rather. Uhm?
Yeah I have a question in the chat.
I'm sorry I didn't see that Seth.
So if you want to import a site database,
export as part of this.
So what if you want to import a site database
export as part of this spin up process?
Yeah, so I think the README covers
that the way like conceptually what
you would do there is you would.
You would calling your git repository
into the codebase and, uhm.
You would you don't want to
run a site install right?
So really what you want to do?
I think the order of operations
here is like make hydrate,
which like brings the system up like
creates a solar core and the other extra
things that the infrastructure needs.
And then you would want to use the.
Uh, data.
Database Drupal database import.
So you'd run make Drupal database
import and you'd give it a
file name and it would import
that into your Drupal database,
and then you'd have your Drupal
codebase in the codebase folder
and you have the database loaded
into the database and hopefully
hydrate would have taken care of
all of the other little components.
We can look hydrate.
Yeah, so you can see it.
Make solar corps namespaces
that some boys graph,
I think and then runs the island
or migrations and it ultimately
will do a Drush CR when it's done.
Yeah, so right, making local will create
a new site from like a starter kit.
Essentially you could do that and then
you could do a database import from there,
but you know your Fedora may have.
Uh, terms ingested into it that that
came from the other side install.
So yeah, it's much cleaner to do a make,
hydrate and then do the database import,
sort of atomically.
I think Nigel covered that well
in the. A readme. Let's go see.
Yeah, there there are
some other aspects here.
So for example if you have
if you want to build a site,
if you want to build a database
from a code base with no database,
you can do that because of drew
bowls config export right?
So if your code base includes
a good config export,
there's actually a flag in that
sample dot ENV file which.
Will import all of the config's
in the config folder rather
than try to create a you know
rather than just load a database.
And the end result should
be relatively similar.
The different the main difference
there is you can't.
The config import can never
bring content over,
so you're not going to get taxonomy
terms or something like that.
You have to have a different way of
getting taxonomy terms and other.
Content nodes into the site.
They looked at the secret folder.
Also, we talked about these.
Oh yeah, and content I do.
Yeah old themes have caught ID references.
Yeah, that in that case then you're
gonna have to bring over the
exact database and that's fine.
There are other config management.
Makefile commands UUID. Uhm?
So if you're bringing over a
site that you built elsewhere,
or if you're if your code base doesn't
necessarily match the database that
you have for one reason or another,
there is a make set site UUID which will
fix that UUID mismatch problem for you.
Nigel wrote a nice little function
that runs inside of Drupal
that handles all of that,
so there's a lot of little
goodies like that packed in here.
Uhm, but yeah, and I'll share the
slides here at the end of this.
You're welcome to to use this as a reference.
I would say make demo is the simplest
thing that will get you a version of the
future diodora.ca if you're on the site,
install brand or install profile
branch rather, you can get the born
digital lyricist, install profile,
which you'll see in a minute.
And you can start exploring those imports
and exports that we were just looking at.
Make up turns things on makes
make down turns things off and
make clean blows everything up.
Like everything,
so to only run that when you really wanna
throw everything out and start over.
And and what it does is in plain text.
So if you want to understand
what it does before you run it.
Make clean, first of all,
it it sort of gives a gooey
confirmation on the cloud line.
Then it does the down that
turns all your containers off.
Then it ruins your codebase.
Your asserts folder your secrets,
live sub folder and then it tries and
throws out like Git work in progress.
The first thing I did when I fork
this repository was comment out
this line 'cause I hate it when
it throws out what I'm working
on but you might like it when it
throws out what you're working on.
Yeah, erm, star dot star.
Nigel did not hide that in here.
OK, we talked about maintenance a little bit.
As I said, I really propose that
we spend a good 60 or 90 minutes
talking about that at another time.
And we also touched on this also.
There are really two things that
you have to consider to run.
I'll in production. One is SSL.
You need to handle search well
and all the tooling is there.
You just have to get your search in the right
place and everything will get picked up.
And the second thing is for best practices
you really shouldn't be treating your
remote servers as if there are local.
With bind mounts you should be like.
When I say bind mount,
I mean you shouldn't be bind
mounting your entire code based.
Right? That that's sort of that.
It's fine, it gets the job done,
but it's not recommended.
Best practice,
recommended best practices actually
to bind mount only the the,
the public and private files directories.
'cause that's fundamentally what
you're persisting between turning
the the Docker containers on and off.
And then, uh, I expect that other
command is actually done by now.
But to touch on Kubernetes one last time,
if you're if you're doing,
I'll already and you're thinking you
want to sort of step it up a notch
and do auto scaling and other things
that Kubernetes offers the Quirk
project which we've been involved with.
Recently open source their quirk Base I8.
A project and one of the components here
is something called the helm chart.
This this folder and the files that contain.
Are essentially the Kubernetes version
or the helm version for Kubernetes of
what you saw in the Docker compose file,
so all of those services are
like restated in this in the.
Not that one. In in the the files here.
So if we go into services for example.
You'll see.
This is the the cantaloupe.
Service the Triple F service.
Here's the craft service FC repo. Etc.
And then. Uhm? And there's more
things in here that you'll recognize
if you're just comparing what's
in that Docker compose file to
to what is in this helm chart,
so I'm not going to attempt to
walk through everything here.
If you're interested, this is now open
and you are welcome to go check it out.
There are other ways that
institutions are handling Kubernetes,
so I know the Johns Hopkins sort of is
handling things in a different way,
and I think lyricists ended up handling.
Things in a different way,
but we in Cork are relying
on the same chart here,
and we're we're using GitLab
CI to manage all of the
orchestration behind the scenes.
Alright, so let's go check in on that.
Install over here. Yep, it is done
and it left us with a login link,
so let's just go and pop that open.
OK, and I'm not even gonna
bother changing the password.
Uhm? But I know there are four
things I have to do here.
One thing is I'm going to make
a home page piece of content.
Add content basic page. Second
thing is add a browse collections.
Page.
Can we get the link to the health chart?
Yes, the link to the helm chart is
in the slides, but I don't think
I've shared that yet, so let me see.
Chart help chart. Here we go.
If I can find the chat window.
Maybe I should do the slides while I'm at it.
Those are the slides.
Uhm, right where we built the browse
collections page and then we have to go
re save to taxonomy terms irritatingly.
Models.
Resource types.
Collection
say.
It is what you're doing now.
Just because there's some sort of.
Wrinkle or bug?
Yeah, there's a sort of order of operation.
OK, so the I don't know why the
taxonomy terms need to be re saved,
but Drupal throws an error about
translatable content which is kind of
ridiculous if you don't receive those.
So I think there's probably a
way that we can tweak the the
way the terms get put in so that
whatever data is missing is there
and you don't have to do this.
That's on my list and sometime
in the next four weeks or so.
We're going to do a big giant
overhaul on this whole thing,
and Danny will update that
amongst other things.
So that's what those two are.
These first two are automatable,
and they're actually the automation
is actually in this. Uhm?
Uh, this guy here.
Uh essentially uses the the Jason API UM,
and that password which we have
available to us on the file
system to go and create the home
page and browse collections.
But for whatever reason,
I'm getting a 403 on those,
and so they're not created.
So that's another thing
we have to just fix, but.
Very soon this will just
happen like those first.
The two pages that I created
will just come out of the box
as part of the install profile.
Uh, so having done that,
I think we can go to the home page.
And we can. Uh, sure, let's go ahead
and create a positive re item.
Test collection
save.
Now we're going to. This.
Going to bed child. Pastre item test image.
Image why don't we do? Otif
do media. Admedia
file.
Choose file.
March image
file.
We are looking at this image
before the derivatives are.
Finished generating.
Might have to reload this in a
second go look at the media.
Oh, there was loading so so
yeah so you could see the.
The Fitz file is here.
The service file and thumbnail got generated.
OCR should come in. Uh,
actually probably the OCR is not going
to show up on this if we ingest data PDF,
OCR would show up. Go back.
So the reason that I went and re
saved those collections a taxonomy
terms was to fix the layout on this
and the layout on this is broken.
It should be displaying.
Like this, UM, so I thought that those
saving those two terms fixed that,
but maybe I only saved one of them.
Oh. No, I did say both of them.
So I don't know what's up with that.
I'll have to to look, but anyway,
that's an issue.
That's the only reason I did that was to
to fix the layout on this collection,
which is there's a broken context.
The context is asking for those terms,
and there's something in Drupal
that's failing to hand that term off.
And when I did this last night that did it.
But anyway, so this is the theme
that we in Larissas contributed.
That's fundamentally an
island or a seven, sort of.
Parity. Same. It's W keg 2.1 AA
compliant and it does essentially
what I owned or seven does
in terms of user experience.
For for navigating objects.
No, it is. It is a theme on that
branch as part of the profile.
Do you get the theme and metadata set up?
Yeah. Yes, so and the theme right?
Let's go look at that.
So there are two themes here.
There is the Islandora starter theme.
And there is the outdoor base theme.
This image needs to be replaced
under our base theme is sort of
the parent theme for all of this,
and you're not expected to modify that.
That is something that the outdoor
foundation will will release
minor tweaks to here and there,
but really, this island or
starter theme is the one that it.
Puts in place for you to use
and then you get all of these.
A modification your customization
tools right here.
You can set the logo image.
You can change fonts.
You can change colors will just do a
color change here to. Go to the no.
The carapace thing is going to look terrible.
We'll go with dark.
I think this just goes with a
black and white sort of theme.
Let's save. A can like the logo.
Oh I unchecked this box, that's why.
OK, now if I go to the.
Clear all the caches.
And then from this point it's
just a Drupal application, right?
It's a. It's a Drupal application
that includes islandora defaults
and islandora modules and whatnot,
and you can customize how things look
and feel and behave from here. Uhm?
So for example, if we go to that.
Browse collections page that we created.
I think it'll give us a list
of all of the collections,
so this is this is a predefined view
on the page called browse collections.
It will show you a list of all the
collections and what we do is we put
this in the main navigation. Uhm?
So that should probably be a third step.
After that content is created
in that initial content.
But there is support in here
for newspapers in this theme
and for compound objects,
compound objects display
essentially a slide shows.
I can do a little demo if
that folks are interested.
That is, in my mind, huge.
Because I think outside of this,
there's no way to deal with compound objects.
At least quasi out of the box that
is maybe true. Do you mind Noah
just given the time if we start?
Asking you some questions.
I mean, I think folks have felt
comfortable doing that throughout,
but do you mind just in general if.
Whatever comes absolutely.
Get me. How is a compound object
different from page content?
Just a second and I will.
Come spring,
I just want to make sure I didn't
think there was a compound in
both the system model and the.
Uhm?
Resource type and I want to make
sure I get it right which one it is.
Edit.
This is really great to see this
this in action because I know we
were talking about this particular
PR last week at the tech meeting
so it's nice to see a demo of it.
Absolutely.
Uh, looks like. It is.
Compound object is supposed
to be the system model.
The resource type is collection OK,
so to answer the question.
Resource type this collection.
To answer the question uhm,
fundamentally, in our view anyway.
Collections compound objects,
and page content are special
cases of collections right there.
Their umbrella objects, right containers,
and so the difference between collections.
Proper and compound objects is is
really in those two values. I just set.
It is a collection of resource type,
but down here at the bottom
when you set the system model.
You set the the UM.
Set that to compound and what that's
going to do is be interpreted by
the context module 2 to have a
different display for the object,
so let's just go add a couple
of children here and see if it
behaves itself or if the compound.
Uhm?
If the compound context has the same
problem that the collection context has.
Still image.
Image.
Media. Then I should turn off this
terribly ugly a color scheme that I set.
Estimates Mitch.
Turn. So this is just an image.
Second child.
Image will throw this one
in open seadragon also.
Eons
compound trial. Two media.
And we're gonna add media. Image.
Shoes I think I saw Gavin's
duck here. Original file save.
OK, so now let's go back out and
browse back into that object.
So a compound example.
And what?
Will give it a minute.
See if the this one is behaving better.
OK, so yeah, you can see it's sort of
a handles it as a slideshow, right?
It handled it's it's really a collection,
but the view mode that we're providing
here with the context module is because
we set the model as a compound object.
Then the display of it is as a
compound object and there is both
item description and set description.
So you can do the metadata toggle between
the parent metadata and the child metadata.
OK, and I hate this color scheme
so much I have to go fix it.
So can you explain why that would be more
suited to newspapers that display newspapers?
OK, so let's go do a newspaper separately,
newspapers. Am I wrong about that?
Is it not? Is it is that? Is this?
Are you saying this display is not is
there's another newspaper content type,
so let's go look at that for a second, OK?
I'm gonna need to double check
something here. Just a second.
It is your question more about
like when would you choose to
use a compound object like?
What would you?
Yeah I mean sort of like yeah,
I guess that's right, yes.
But but I'm curious about those papers too,
so this is new space.
This is like New York Times, right?
This is the top level newspaper object,
so here we're going to again say it's a
collection 'cause it fundamentally is.
It's a collection of.
Issues if you want to think of it that way.
Uh, But here we're going to say newspaper.
So again,
this is going to change the view that
you get of the collection of the objects,
and I'm not going to send anything.
So I can see those choices.
So I think we added compound object in
newspaper here interesting and you saw
me be surprised before the compound
object was under system resource.
I don't think it is supposed to be.
I think it's just supposed to be here.
OK.
So that's a thing that probably
needs to be tweaked.
There's there's a question in chat
about if the compound object feature
is part of island or defaults,
or part of the profile theme.
Uhm, I believe we can.
I believe we contributed that already
to our defaults and it was accepted.
So I believe the answer is it's
in island or defaults now.
But outside of this install profile
there's not views to handle.
That in a nice way,
like there's not a view that displays
it differently from something else.
So let's go ahead and add a child here.
Yeah, and.
I'm going to. Just make sure I do this right.
Alright. We are now going to create a. Uhm?
A new stop it a newspaper issue.
And so, like the October 26 issue of
New York Times, the New York Times,
yeah, let's let's name it that instead.
Something right I don't know when
this issue is that I have right?
So I chose collection at the
top again 'cause really it's
a collection of of pages.
The way it's set up,
but here I get to choose.
I'm actually going to choose publication
issue not newspaper right where
the newspaper was for the parent.
This one is a publication issue.
So I'm gonna hit save and then
let me see what type of object
I have attached to this one.
So this has model sort of
refining resource type in a way.
Now I have that wrong.
Yeah, they have to be used in conjunction
and their separate and my metadata
expertise does not go to the level of
really carrying that conversation.
I think I saw Christina on this
call and we had some back and forth
as we are getting to the the final
chord and you know orchestration of
where those two where those things
went and how they work together.
So Christina do you if you're around,
do you wanna speak to that?
Uhm, I vaguely remembered that
that was a really long time ago.
My recollection is that it was.
Pulling from like the initially, it was.
This refinement piece was pulling
out of something that would be
in the descriptive metadata,
typically. Uhm, like.
Physical form or something like that that
isn't always set and isn't mandatory.
It's not required,
so I think my I threw up a flag
saying this cannot be set on a
field that's in the descriptive
metadata that metadata librarians
are used to being able to decide
what to do with if it's sort of
like required system functionality,
stuff that needs to be in a different field.
So I think that is why.
It got moved to model,
which I think is a better place
for it because model is more about
how islandora treats a thing,
not how you want to describe the thing.
In your descriptive metadata.
Yeah, I'm just going to pop into our demo
and grab actual newspaper pages and.
And then we can populate this object.
Or, you know. If you.
So this is what it's going to
look like when we're all done,
but we'll just go and steal the
newspaper pages from this object. Media.
Oops, children.
Uh.
Turn hey download.
Download.
Alright, and then we can try.
We can. Go back here.
Choose files OK. Danny showed me this.
I had no idea it existed.
We'll see if it works within our theme.
ACT these ones. Open.
Content type how's it rate item?
Now for these pages, we're going
to set resource type text.
And model page resource type.
Model page here it is.
Oh OK, so this OK, this is the
problem we're gonna have to go
fix those separately in a minute,
but we can do this bulk upload.
PDF, I guess that's a file.
And we're going to go original file submit.
It may fail because resource type
is a required field and it's
not on that. Bulk upload form.
Oh so it worked.
And I think that's the thing we removed.
Maybe that was it resource type
or something that was in the disk.
No, they yeah.
It's just not part of that bulk upload form.
Danny built that before this profile
came along and we just need to
tweak that form to include the the
resource type as one of the pull downs
so it can be bulk set like that.
And then this will be super
fast for uploading bulk pages.
Text.
Save.
Base first type text.
Save. Alright, now let's
come back out to here.
We're going to go back to test collection.
Oh wait, this layout is not
working for us. Will go to Serge.
Here we have New York Times.
New York Times has. Hey.
No, that layout is not working either.
Must be the same compound?
I mean sorry, the same context issue.
I believe it relies on the date
ETF date field for that to work.
Alright, so I guess that was a thing
we needed to set on this object.
Date created like what did I say?
2021 5:50 is that valid?
Might wanna put it in date issued
instead if it assumes their published.
I don't know if it got that picky or not,
but oh, did I do it the wrong one.
I don't know if it matters, but.
I'd opt for date issued instead of date
created in case it mattered, right?
Let's take a look, see, whoops.
Elect.
The only reason I know is 'cause I was
poking at this just a few weeks ago.
I'm going to put it. I'll put it in both,
but we'll change the date and we'll
see which one does the thing.
Save.
OK, so we can go back now to New York
Times and let's see 2021 October.
OK, so whoever suggested date
issued was correct. It looks like.
Date issued. Then maybe
this is not even necessary.
Also note this relies on a formatter
that's currently just on the theme.
So if you wanted to have your own theme
that's completely separate from this one,
you'd have to bring bring over the
code for that formatter as well.
Yeah yeah, and that that sentence
right there highlights the
difficulties we're all going to have
sharing configuration in out right?
'cause it's true and I don't have a better.
I don't have an answer.
You can contribute the formatter to
the controlled access terms module.
Yeah, bundling things like that
into modules probably is the correct
way to distribute it most broadly.
This late summer sorry you
go ahead go ahead Christina,
like if you had created a date published
field in your content model for
repository item instead of date issued.
Does it break?
Is that's another part where
we're all reinventing wheels and
it's going to make things hard if
they depend upon specific fields.
Well, to illustrate South Point.
So if I go here and I edit this,
this is a view right?
And if I edit this view?
Are we going to be able to see it here?
Uhm, date issued. See the the view
which comes along with our theme.
UM uses date issued and if you wanted
to change the behavior you could
just come in here and change that.
Or if you wanted to build a view
that worked almost like this or
exactly like this you could go.
You could edit this view like look at
it and then copy it over like create
one on another site that matched it.
Or there's an export thing
here somewhere, right?
Uh.
It it just highlights like the additional
complexity of trying to drop something
like this view into your setup.
If you already have your setup
and you named it date published
instead of date issued like there's
more things to be aware of that
you need to configure then right?
You know this situation if if we sort
of assumed we were using mods and it.
It it has data sheet so we all had data
issued in and that's not the case anymore.
Uhm? Great, I haven't been
paying attention to comments.
Looks like other folks are
are bringing things up.
Did I miss any? Questions.
Yes, it's recorded, so yeah OK.
I was also going to suggest that
we actually start the recording
because it's been 2 hours and we're.
I'm moving into the UM,
where we have moved through the Q&A time, UM,
into the time that was allotted for a break.
Uhm, if you were. Fine, uhm.
With this I'll just hit stop.
Yep, absolutely. Thank you.